CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Introduction

Thank you for considering contributing to Kedro-Viz! We welcome contributions in the form of pull requests, issues or code reviews. You can add to code, or simply send us spelling and grammar fixes or extra tests. Contribute anything that you think improves the community for us all!

The following sections describe our vision and the contribution process.

## Code of conduct

The Kedro team pledges to foster and maintain a welcoming and friendly community in all of our spaces. All members of our community are expected to follow our [Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) and we will do our best to enforce those principles and build a happy environment where everyone is treated with respect and dignity.

# Get started

We use [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/quantumblacklabs/kedro-viz/issues) to keep track of known bugs. We keep a close eye on them and try to make it clear when we have an internal fix in progress. Before reporting a new issue, please do your best to ensure your problem hasn't already been reported. If so, it's often better to just leave a comment on an existing issue, rather than create a new one. Old issues also can often include helpful tips and solutions to common problems.

If you are looking for help with your code, please consider posting a question on [Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/kedro-viz). If you tag it `kedro-viz`, `kedro` and `python`, more people will see it and may be able to help. We are unable to provide individual support via email. In the interest of community engagement we also believe that help is much more valuable if it's shared publicly, so that more people can benefit from it.

If you're over on Stack Overflow and want to boost your points, take a look at the `kedro-viz` tag and see if you can help others out by sharing your knowledge. It's another great way to contribute.

If you have already checked the [existing issues](https://github.com/quantumblacklabs/kedro-viz/issues) on GitHub and are still convinced that you have found odd or erroneous behaviour then please file a [new issue](https://github.com/quantumblacklabs/kedro-viz/issues/new/choose). We have a template that helps you provide the necessary information we'll need in order to address your query.

## Feature requests

### Suggest a new feature

If you have new ideas for Kedro-Viz functionality then please open a [GitHub issue](https://github.com/quantumblacklabs/kedro-viz/issues) with the label `Type: Enhancement`. Please describe in your own words the feature you would like to see, why you need it, and how it should work.

### Contribute a new feature

If you're unsure where to begin contributing to Kedro-Viz, please start by looking through the `good first issues` and `Request: Help Wanted` on [GitHub](https://github.com/quantumblacklabs/kedro-viz/issues).

Typically, small contributions to Kedro-Viz are more preferable due to an easier review process, but we accept any new features if they prove to be essential for the functioning of the plugin or if we believe that they are used by most projects.

## Your first contribution

Working on your first pull request? You can learn how from these resources:
* [First timers only](https://www.firsttimersonly.com/)
* [How to contribute to an open source project on GitHub](https://egghead.io/courses/how-to-contribute-to-an-open-source-project-on-github)

### Guidelines
> *Note:* We only accept contributions under the [Apache 2.0](https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0) license and you should have permission to share the submitted code.

*  Aim for cross-platform compatibility on Windows, macOS and Linux, and support recent versions of major browsers
* We use [SemVer](https://semver.org/) for versioning
* Our code is designed to be compatible with Python 3.5 onwards
* We use [Anaconda](https://www.anaconda.com/distribution/) as a preferred virtual environment
* We use [PEP 8 conventions](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/) for all Python code
* We use [Google docstrings](https://google.github.io/styleguide/pyguide.html#38-comments-and-docstrings) for code comments
* We use [PEP 484 type hints](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0484/) for all user-facing functions / class methods e.g.
```
def count_truthy(elements: List[Any]) -> int:
    return sum(1 for elem in elements if elem)
```
*  Keep UI elements fully keyboard accessible, and aim to support screen-readers where possible
*  Maintain a high level of animation performance, and minimise page-load time

### JavaScript Development
First, clone this repo. Then install dependencies (`npm i`). Now you're ready to begin development.

If you want to use a particular dataset, you'll first need to place it in `/public/logs/nodes.json`. Otherwise, you can serve randomly-generated data.

Kedro-Viz uses an environment variable to configure the data source. You can set it when starting up the dev server, e.g. `DATA=random npm start` will serve random procedurally-generated data (refreshed on each page-load). When random data is enabled, certain other features like snapshot history are also enabled by default to help with browser testing. This is usually the most useful setting for local development.

In other words, to run the app in development mode on a local server, use one of the following:

- `DATA=random npm start` --> Serve randomly-generated data
- `npm start` --> Serve data loaded from `/public/logs/nodes.json`

This will serve the app at [localhost:4141](http://localhost:4141/), and watch files in `/src` for changes. It will also update the `/lib` directory, which contains a Babel-compiled copy of the source. This directory is exported to `npm`, and is used when importing as a React component into another application. It is updated automatically on save in case you need to test/debug it locally (e.g. with `npm link`). You can also update it manually, by running

```bash
npm run lib
```

### Branching conventions

We use a branching model that helps us keep track of branches in a logical, consistent way. All branches should have the hyphen-separated convention of: `<type-of-change>/<short-description-of-change>` e.g. `feature/awesome-new-feature`

| Types of changes | Description                                                                 |
| ---------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `docs`           | Changes to the documentation of the plugin                                  |
| `feature`        | Non-breaking change which adds functionality                                |
| `fix`            | Non-breaking change which fixes an issue                                    |
| `tests`          | Changes to project unit (`tests/`) and / or integration (`features/`) tests |

## Plugin contribution process

 1. Fork the project
 2. Develop your contribution in a new branch and open a PR against the `develop` branch
 3. Make sure the CI builds are green (have a look at the section [Running checks locally](#running-checks-locally) below)
 4. Update the PR according to the reviewer's comments

### JavaScript application tests

This app uses [Jest](https://jestjs.io/) and [Enzyme](https://airbnb.io/enzyme/) to run JavaScript tests, which you can invoke as follows:

```bash
npm test
```

You can also [inspect and debug tests](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/debugging-tests):

```bash
npm run test:debug
```

And [check test coverage](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/running-tests#coverage-reporting):

```bash
npm run test:coverage
```

See the [Create-React-App docs](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app) for further information on JS testing.

## Python web server tests
To run E2E tests you need to install the test requirements which includes `behave`, do this using the following command:

```bash
pip install -r test_requirements.txt
```

### Running checks locally

All checks run by our CI / CD pipeline can be run locally on your computer.

#### PEP-8 Standards (`isort`, `pylint` and `flake8`)

```bash
make lint
```

#### Unit tests, 100% coverage (`pytest`, `pytest-cov`)

```bash
make pytest
```

#### End-to-end tests (`behave`)

```bash
make e2e-tests
```

## Preparing a release

The version number for Kedro-Viz is defined in three places, which all need to be maintained at the same version number:

- `package.json`
- `package-lock.json`
- `package/kedro_viz/__init__.py`

The `Makefile` contains a `version` target which accepts the `VERSION` argument
or environmental variable, which will update all the files at the same time. To update the version and prepare a new release, first check that the release notes are up to date, then run the following command:

```bash
make version VERSION=1.0.5
```

Commit message:

[KED-824][KED-788] Use new JSON API in app, and calculate transiti… (#8)
* Migrate to a new data file/endpoint and format

* Fix random-data generator

* Remove unnecessary extra filter loop in linked-nodes

This should improve the efficiency of the search

* Calculate transitive links on the fly in Edge selector

* Fix tags, by ensuring nodeTags use generated tag IDs

* Update mock data, separate data.mock from state.mock, and fix tests

* Remove unused variable

* In format-data, validate input before anything else

* Fix node sorting by name in node-list

* Change min node-list height to 400px

* Fix getNodes test for sort direction

Sort by name, not ID

* Add new tests for transitive edge calculations

* Add missing addNewEdge test

* Use 'is_parameters' boolean flag for params instead of string text search

* Fix parameters in random data generator

* Remove getRandomMatch util

It's an unnecessary abstraction that can be covered by getRandom

* Add ability to load and run mock data

Also, reformat CONTRIBUTING.md (Automatically reformatted with Prettier or whatever), and add note about it to the docs

* Fix typo in comment

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Introduction

Thank you for considering contributing to Kedro-Viz! We welcome contributions in the form of pull requests, issues or code reviews. You can add to code, or simply send us spelling and grammar fixes or extra tests. Contribute anything that you think improves the community for us all!

The following sections describe our vision and the contribution process.

## Code of conduct

The Kedro team pledges to foster and maintain a welcoming and friendly community in all of our spaces. All members of our community are expected to follow our [Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) and we will do our best to enforce those principles and build a happy environment where everyone is treated with respect and dignity.

# Get started

We use [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/quantumblacklabs/kedro-viz/issues) to keep track of known bugs. We keep a close eye on them and try to make it clear when we have an internal fix in progress. Before reporting a new issue, please do your best to ensure your problem hasn't already been reported. If so, it's often better to just leave a comment on an existing issue, rather than create a new one. Old issues also can often include helpful tips and solutions to common problems.

If you are looking for help with your code, please consider posting a question on [Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/kedro-viz). If you tag it `kedro-viz`, `kedro` and `python`, more people will see it and may be able to help. We are unable to provide individual support via email. In the interest of community engagement we also believe that help is much more valuable if it's shared publicly, so that more people can benefit from it.

If you're over on Stack Overflow and want to boost your points, take a look at the `kedro-viz` tag and see if you can help others out by sharing your knowledge. It's another great way to contribute.

If you have already checked the [existing issues](https://github.com/quantumblacklabs/kedro-viz/issues) on GitHub and are still convinced that you have found odd or erroneous behaviour then please file a [new issue](https://github.com/quantumblacklabs/kedro-viz/issues/new/choose). We have a template that helps you provide the necessary information we'll need in order to address your query.

## Feature requests

### Suggest a new feature

If you have new ideas for Kedro-Viz functionality then please open a [GitHub issue](https://github.com/quantumblacklabs/kedro-viz/issues) with the label `Type: Enhancement`. Please describe in your own words the feature you would like to see, why you need it, and how it should work.

### Contribute a new feature

If you're unsure where to begin contributing to Kedro-Viz, please start by looking through the `good first issues` and `Request: Help Wanted` on [GitHub](https://github.com/quantumblacklabs/kedro-viz/issues).

Typically, small contributions to Kedro-Viz are more preferable due to an easier review process, but we accept any new features if they prove to be essential for the functioning of the plugin or if we believe that they are used by most projects.

## Your first contribution

Working on your first pull request? You can learn how from these resources:

- [First timers only](https://www.firsttimersonly.com/)
- [How to contribute to an open source project on GitHub](https://egghead.io/courses/how-to-contribute-to-an-open-source-project-on-github)

### Guidelines

> _Note:_ We only accept contributions under the [Apache 2.0](https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0) license and you should have permission to share the submitted code.

- Aim for cross-platform compatibility on Windows, macOS and Linux, and support recent versions of major browsers
- We use [SemVer](https://semver.org/) for versioning
- Our code is designed to be compatible with Python 3.5 onwards
- We use [Anaconda](https://www.anaconda.com/distribution/) as a preferred virtual environment
- We use [PEP 8 conventions](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/) for all Python code
- We use [Google docstrings](https://google.github.io/styleguide/pyguide.html#38-comments-and-docstrings) for code comments
- We use [PEP 484 type hints](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0484/) for all user-facing functions / class methods e.g.

```
def count_truthy(elements: List[Any]) -> int:
    return sum(1 for elem in elements if elem)
```

- Keep UI elements fully keyboard accessible, and aim to support screen-readers where possible
- Maintain a high level of animation performance, and minimise page-load time

### JavaScript Development

First, clone this repo. Then install dependencies (`npm i`). Now you're ready to begin development.

If you want to use a particular dataset, you'll first need to place it in `/public/logs/nodes.json`. Otherwise, you can serve randomly-generated data.

Kedro-Viz uses an environment variable to configure the data source. You can set it when starting up the dev server, e.g. `DATA=random npm start` will serve random procedurally-generated data (refreshed on each page-load). When random or mock data is enabled, certain other features like snapshot history are also enabled by default to help with browser testing. This is usually the most useful setting for local development.

In other words, to run the app in development mode on a local server, use one of the following:

- `DATA=random npm start` --> Serve randomly-generated data
- `DATA=mock npm start` --> Serve example test data, from `/src/utils/data.mock.js`
- `npm start` --> Serve data loaded from `/public/logs/nodes.json`

This will serve the app at [localhost:4141](http://localhost:4141/), and watch files in `/src` for changes. It will also update the `/lib` directory, which contains a Babel-compiled copy of the source. This directory is exported to `npm`, and is used when importing as a React component into another application. It is updated automatically on save in case you need to test/debug it locally (e.g. with `npm link`). You can also update it manually, by running

```bash
npm run lib
```

### Branching conventions

We use a branching model that helps us keep track of branches in a logical, consistent way. All branches should have the hyphen-separated convention of: `<type-of-change>/<short-description-of-change>` e.g. `feature/awesome-new-feature`

| Types of changes | Description                                                                 |
| ---------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `docs`           | Changes to the documentation of the plugin                                  |
| `feature`        | Non-breaking change which adds functionality                                |
| `fix`            | Non-breaking change which fixes an issue                                    |
| `tests`          | Changes to project unit (`tests/`) and / or integration (`features/`) tests |

## Plugin contribution process

1.  Fork the project
2.  Develop your contribution in a new branch and open a PR against the `develop` branch
3.  Make sure the CI builds are green (have a look at the section [Running checks locally](#running-checks-locally) below)
4.  Update the PR according to the reviewer's comments

### JavaScript application tests

This app uses [Jest](https://jestjs.io/) and [Enzyme](https://airbnb.io/enzyme/) to run JavaScript tests, which you can invoke as follows:

```bash
npm test
```

You can also [inspect and debug tests](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/debugging-tests):

```bash
npm run test:debug
```

And [check test coverage](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/running-tests#coverage-reporting):

```bash
npm run test:coverage
```

See the [Create-React-App docs](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app) for further information on JS testing.

## Python web server tests

To run E2E tests you need to install the test requirements which includes `behave`, do this using the following command:

```bash
pip install -r test_requirements.txt
```

### Running checks locally

All checks run by our CI / CD pipeline can be run locally on your computer.

#### PEP-8 Standards (`isort`, `pylint` and `flake8`)

```bash
make lint
```

#### Unit tests, 100% coverage (`pytest`, `pytest-cov`)

```bash
make pytest
```

#### End-to-end tests (`behave`)

```bash
make e2e-tests
```

## Preparing a release

The version number for Kedro-Viz is defined in three places, which all need to be maintained at the same version number:

- `package.json`
- `package-lock.json`
- `package/kedro_viz/__init__.py`

The `Makefile` contains a `version` target which accepts the `VERSION` argument
or environmental variable, which will update all the files at the same time. To update the version and prepare a new release, first check that the release notes are up to date, then run the following command:

```bash
make version VERSION=1.0.5
```
