docs/source/platform_agnostic_sharing_with_kedro_viz.md, before:

# Platform-agnostic sharing with Kedro-Viz 

Introduced in Kedro-Viz version 7.1.0, the `kedro viz build` command allows seamless publishing and sharing of Kedro-Viz on any static website hosting platform. Running this command from the CLI generates a `build` folder within your Kedro project, containing a static Kedro-Viz app package.

This page describes how to publish Kedro-Viz on a static website hosting platform using `kedro viz build`. It uses the spaceflights tutorial as an example.

## Setup your kedro project 

If you haven't installed Kedro {doc}`follow the documentation to get set up<kedro:get_started/install>`. 

```{important}
We recommend that you use the same version of Kedro that was most recently used to test this tutorial (0.19.1). To check the version installed, type `kedro -V` in your terminal window.
```

1. In your terminal window, navigate to the folder you want to store the project. Generate the spaceflights tutorial project with all the code in place by using the [Kedro starter for the spaceflights tutorial](https://github.com/kedro-org/kedro-starters/tree/main/spaceflights-pandas):


```bash
kedro new --starter=spaceflights-pandas
```

When prompted for a project name, you can enter anything, but we will assume `Spaceflights` throughout.

2. When your project is ready, navigate to the root directory of the project. Install the dependencies from the project root directory by typing the following in your terminal:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

3. Kedro-Viz requires specific minimum versions of `fsspec`, and `kedro` to publish your project. Ensure you have these correct versions by updating the `requirements.txt` file of the Kedro project to add the following:

```text
fsspec>=2023.9.0
kedro>=0.18.2
```

4. Execute the following command from your project's root directory:

```bash
kedro viz build
```

This creates a `build` folder containing your Kedro-Viz app package in your project directory. 

## Static website hosting platforms such as GitHub Pages

Follow the steps [listed in the GitHub pages documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/pages/quickstart) to create a Git repository that supports GitHub Pages. On completion, push the contents of the previously created `build` folder to this new repository. Your site will be available at the following URL: `http://<username>.github.io`

Commit message:

Docs: Enable users to disable preview for all when publishing Kedro-Viz (#1925)
* Disable preview docs

Signed-off-by: Jitendra Gundaniya <jitendra_gundaniya@mckinsey.com>

* revert code

Signed-off-by: Jitendra Gundaniya <jitendra_gundaniya@mckinsey.com>

* kedro-viz version updated to 9.2.0

Signed-off-by: Jitendra Gundaniya <jitendra_gundaniya@mckinsey.com>

* Publish popup gif updated.

Signed-off-by: Jitendra Gundaniya <jitendra_gundaniya@mckinsey.com>

* Update docs/source/platform_agnostic_sharing_with_kedro_viz.md

Co-authored-by: Ravi Kumar Pilla <ravi_kumar_pilla@mckinsey.com>
Signed-off-by: Jitendra Gundaniya <38945204+jitu5@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update docs/source/publish_and_share_kedro_viz_on_azure.md

Co-authored-by: Ravi Kumar Pilla <ravi_kumar_pilla@mckinsey.com>
Signed-off-by: Jitendra Gundaniya <38945204+jitu5@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update docs/source/publish_and_share_kedro_viz_on_gcp.md

Co-authored-by: Ravi Kumar Pilla <ravi_kumar_pilla@mckinsey.com>
Signed-off-by: Jitendra Gundaniya <38945204+jitu5@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update docs/source/publish_and_share_kedro_viz_on_aws.md

Co-authored-by: Ravi Kumar Pilla <ravi_kumar_pilla@mckinsey.com>
Signed-off-by: Jitendra Gundaniya <38945204+jitu5@users.noreply.github.com>

* Readme updated for CLI

Signed-off-by: Jitendra Gundaniya <jitendra_gundaniya@mckinsey.com>

* Update README.md

Co-authored-by: Ravi Kumar Pilla <ravi_kumar_pilla@mckinsey.com>
Signed-off-by: Jitendra Gundaniya <38945204+jitu5@users.noreply.github.com>

* CLI flag renamed to --include-previews

Signed-off-by: Jitendra Gundaniya <jitendra_gundaniya@mckinsey.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: Jitendra Gundaniya <jitendra_gundaniya@mckinsey.com>
Signed-off-by: Jitendra Gundaniya <38945204+jitu5@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Ravi Kumar Pilla <ravi_kumar_pilla@mckinsey.com>

docs/source/platform_agnostic_sharing_with_kedro_viz.md, after:

# Platform-agnostic sharing with Kedro-Viz 

Introduced in Kedro-Viz version 7.1.0, the `kedro viz build` command allows seamless publishing and sharing of Kedro-Viz on any static website hosting platform. Running this command from the CLI generates a `build` folder within your Kedro project, containing a static Kedro-Viz app package.

This page describes how to publish Kedro-Viz on a static website hosting platform using `kedro viz build`. It uses the spaceflights tutorial as an example.

## Setup your kedro project 

If you haven't installed Kedro {doc}`follow the documentation to get set up<kedro:get_started/install>`. 

```{important}
We recommend that you use the same version of Kedro that was most recently used to test this tutorial (0.19.1). To check the version installed, type `kedro -V` in your terminal window.
```

1. In your terminal window, navigate to the folder you want to store the project. Generate the spaceflights tutorial project with all the code in place by using the [Kedro starter for the spaceflights tutorial](https://github.com/kedro-org/kedro-starters/tree/main/spaceflights-pandas):


```bash
kedro new --starter=spaceflights-pandas
```

When prompted for a project name, you can enter anything, but we will assume `Spaceflights` throughout.

2. When your project is ready, navigate to the root directory of the project. Install the dependencies from the project root directory by typing the following in your terminal:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

3. Kedro-Viz requires specific minimum versions of `fsspec`, and `kedro` to publish your project. Ensure you have these correct versions by updating the `requirements.txt` file of the Kedro project to add the following:

```text
fsspec>=2023.9.0
kedro>=0.18.2
```

4. Execute the following command from your project's root directory:

```bash
kedro viz build
```

```{note}
Starting from Kedro-Viz 9.2.0, `kedro viz build` will not include dataset previews by default. To enable previews for all the datasets, use the `--include-previews` flag.
```

This creates a `build` folder containing your Kedro-Viz app package in your project directory. 

## Static website hosting platforms such as GitHub Pages

Follow the steps [listed in the GitHub pages documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/pages/quickstart) to create a Git repository that supports GitHub Pages. On completion, push the contents of the previously created `build` folder to this new repository. Your site will be available at the following URL: `http://<username>.github.io`
